README.md, before:

**Carbon Minimisation API**
----
This API provides a series of optimisation functions against the UK Carbon Intensity API.

This allows you to decide the best time and location to run electricity-intensive operations.

## Running the API

### Set up

* Set up a virtual environment:
`python3 -m venv .venv`

* Activate environment:
`source .venv/bin/activate`

* Install dependencies:
`pip install -r requirements.txt`

### With caching (recommended)
To reduce the demand on the UK Carbon Intensity API, a cache is provided. This updates the cache at 30 minute intervals (the same as the Carbon Intensity API), and vastly increases response times. To run this, run with the `-c` flag:

`python3 carbon_minimiser -c -p 8080`

### Without caching (not recommended)
By disabling the cache the UK Carbon Intensity API will be queried directly on each request. This increases demand on their API and increases latency. To run this option, run without the `-c` flag:

`python3 carbon_minimiser -p 8080`

## Endpoints

### Get optimal time and location
#### Returns the place and time over the next 48 hours with the lowest carbon intensity

* **URL:** `/optimise`

* **Method:** `GET`

*  **URL Params**

   **Optional:** `results=[int]`

* **Success Response:**

  * **Code:** 200 <br />
    **Content:** `{
      "time": "YYYY-mm-ddThh:mmZ",
      "forecast": int,
      "index": str,
      "location": str
    }`

* **Sample Call:** `curl http://localhost:8080/optimise?results=2`

### Get optimal location right now
#### Returns the place with the lowest carbon intensity currently

* **URL:** `/optimise/location`

* **Method:** `GET`

* **Success Response:**

  * **Code:** 200 <br />
    **Content:** `{
      "location": str,
      "cost": int,
      "index": str
    }`

* **Sample Call:** `curl http://localhost:8080/optimise/location`

### Get optimal time for a given location
#### Returns the time over the next 48 hours with the lowest carbon intensity, in the specified location

* **URL:** `/optimise/location/<location>`

* **Method:** `GET`

*  **URL Params**
   
    * **Required:** `<location>` [Key in Regions](https://github.com/bbc/rd-carbon-intensity-exporter/blob/11e17d679f8ff0611d1fd585d493811e603ce3fc/carbon_intensity_exporter/carbon_api_wrapper/carbon.py#L4)
   
    * **Optional:** `results=[int]`

* **Success Response:**

  * **Code:** 200 <br />
    **Content:** `{
      "time": "YYYY-mm-ddThh:mmZ",
      "forecast": int,
      "index": str
    }`
    
* **Error Response:**

  * **Code:** 404 <br />
    **Content:** `"Location not found"`

* **Sample Call:** `curl http://localhost:8080/optimise/location/london?results=3`

### Get optimal time window for a location
#### Given a time window of H hours, returns the optimal start time to minimise carbon usage over H hours

* **URL:** `/optimise/location/<location>/window/<window>`

* **Method:** `GET`

*  **URL Params**
   
    * **Required:** 
      * `<location>` [Key in Regions](https://github.com/bbc/rd-carbon-intensity-exporter/blob/11e17d679f8ff0611d1fd585d493811e603ce3fc/carbon_intensity_exporter/carbon_api_wrapper/carbon.py#L4)
      * `<window>` float number of hours (minimum resolution 0.5 hours)  
    * **Optional:** `results=[int]`

* **Success Response:**

  * **Code:** 200 <br />
    **Content:** `{
      "time": "YYYY-mm-ddThh:mmZ",
      "cost": int
    }`
    
* **Error Response:**

  * **Code:** 404 <br />
    **Content:** `"Location not found"`

* **Sample Call:** `curl http://localhost:8080/optimise/location/london/window/5?results=3`

### Get optimal time window and location
#### Given a time window of H hours, returns the optimal start time and location to minimise carbon over H hours

* **URL:** `/optimise/location/window/<window>`

* **Method:** `GET`

*  **URL Params**
   
    * **Required:** 
      * `<window>` float number of hours (minimum resolution 0.5 hours)  
    * **Optional:** `results=[int]`

* **Success Response:**

  * **Code:** 200 <br />
    **Content:** `{
      "location": str,
      "time": "YYYY-mm-ddThh:mmZ",
      "cost": int
    }`
    
* **Error Response:**

  * **Code:** 404 <br />
    **Content:** `"Location not found"`

* **Sample Call:** `curl http://localhost:8080/optimise/location/window/5?results=2`

Commit message:

Updated tests with new structure

README.md, after:

**Carbon Minimisation API**
----
This API provides a series of optimisation functions against the UK Carbon Intensity API.

This allows you to decide the best time and location to run electricity-intensive operations.

## Running the API

### Set up

* Set up a virtual environment:
`python3 -m venv .venv`

* Activate environment:
`source .venv/bin/activate`

* Install dependencies:
`pip install -r requirements.txt`

### With caching (recommended)
To reduce the demand on the UK Carbon Intensity API, a cache is provided. This updates the cache at 30 minute intervals (the same as the Carbon Intensity API), and vastly increases response times. To run this, run with the `-c` flag:

`python3 carbon_minimiser -c -p 8080`

### Without caching (not recommended)
By disabling the cache the UK Carbon Intensity API will be queried directly on each request. This increases demand on their API and increases latency. To run this option, run without the `-c` flag:

`python3 carbon_minimiser -p 8080`

### Testing

To run the suite of tests:

`python3 -m pytest`
## Endpoints

### Get optimal time and location
#### Returns the place and time over the next 48 hours with the lowest carbon intensity

* **URL:** `/optimise`

* **Method:** `GET`

*  **URL Params**

   **Optional:** `results=[int]`

* **Success Response:**

  * **Code:** 200 <br />
    **Content:** `{
      "time": "YYYY-mm-ddThh:mmZ",
      "forecast": int,
      "index": str,
      "location": str
    }`

* **Sample Call:** `curl http://localhost:8080/optimise?results=2`

### Get optimal location right now
#### Returns the place with the lowest carbon intensity currently

* **URL:** `/optimise/location`

* **Method:** `GET`

* **Success Response:**

  * **Code:** 200 <br />
    **Content:** `{
      "location": str,
      "cost": int,
      "index": str
    }`

* **Sample Call:** `curl http://localhost:8080/optimise/location`

### Get optimal time for a given location
#### Returns the time over the next 48 hours with the lowest carbon intensity, in the specified location

* **URL:** `/optimise/location/<location>`

* **Method:** `GET`

*  **URL Params**
   
    * **Required:** `<location>` [Key in Regions](https://github.com/bbc/rd-carbon-intensity-exporter/blob/11e17d679f8ff0611d1fd585d493811e603ce3fc/carbon_intensity_exporter/carbon_api_wrapper/carbon.py#L4)
   
    * **Optional:** `results=[int]`

* **Success Response:**

  * **Code:** 200 <br />
    **Content:** `{
      "time": "YYYY-mm-ddThh:mmZ",
      "forecast": int,
      "index": str
    }`
    
* **Error Response:**

  * **Code:** 404 <br />
    **Content:** `"Location not found"`

* **Sample Call:** `curl http://localhost:8080/optimise/location/london?results=3`

### Get optimal time window for a location
#### Given a time window of H hours, returns the optimal start time to minimise carbon usage over H hours

* **URL:** `/optimise/location/<location>/window/<window>`

* **Method:** `GET`

*  **URL Params**
   
    * **Required:** 
      * `<location>` [Key in Regions](https://github.com/bbc/rd-carbon-intensity-exporter/blob/11e17d679f8ff0611d1fd585d493811e603ce3fc/carbon_intensity_exporter/carbon_api_wrapper/carbon.py#L4)
      * `<window>` float number of hours (minimum resolution 0.5 hours)  
    * **Optional:** `results=[int]`

* **Success Response:**

  * **Code:** 200 <br />
    **Content:** `{
      "time": "YYYY-mm-ddThh:mmZ",
      "cost": int
    }`
    
* **Error Response:**

  * **Code:** 404 <br />
    **Content:** `"Location not found"`

* **Sample Call:** `curl http://localhost:8080/optimise/location/london/window/5?results=3`

### Get optimal time window and location
#### Given a time window of H hours, returns the optimal start time and location to minimise carbon over H hours

* **URL:** `/optimise/location/window/<window>`

* **Method:** `GET`

*  **URL Params**
   
    * **Required:** 
      * `<window>` float number of hours (minimum resolution 0.5 hours)  
    * **Optional:** `results=[int]`

* **Success Response:**

  * **Code:** 200 <br />
    **Content:** `{
      "location": str,
      "time": "YYYY-mm-ddThh:mmZ",
      "cost": int
    }`
    
* **Error Response:**

  * **Code:** 404 <br />
    **Content:** `"Location not found"`

* **Sample Call:** `curl http://localhost:8080/optimise/location/window/5?results=2`
